Annals of Yin:

1.  Yin Xie's mother was named Jian Di, a daughter of the You Song clan, and she was Emperor Ku's secondary consort. Three women went to bathe and saw a dark bird drop its egg. Jian Di took it and swallowed it, and thus became pregnant and gave birth to Xie. When Xie grew up, he assisted Yu in controlling the waters and achieved merit. Emperor Shun then commanded Xie, saying: "The people are not harmonious, the five relationships are not taught. You shall be Minister of Instruction and respectfully promulgate the five teachings; the five teachings lie in leniency." He was enfeoffed at Shang and granted the surname Zi. Xie rose during the time of Tang (Yao), Yu (Shun), and Great Yu. His achievements were renowned among the people, and the people were thereby at peace.

2.  When Xie died, his son Zhao Ming succeeded him. When Zhao Ming died, his son Xiang Tu succeeded him. When Xiang Tu died, his son Chang Ruo succeeded him. When Chang Ruo died, his son Cao Yu succeeded him. When Cao Yu died, his son Ming succeeded him. When Ming died, his son Zhen succeeded him. When Zhen died, his son Wei succeeded him. When Wei died, his son Bao Ding succeeded him. When Bao Ding died, his son Bao Yi succeeded him. When Bao Yi died, his son Bao Bing succeeded him. When Bao Bing died, his son Zhu Ren succeeded him. When Zhu Ren died, his son Zhu Gui succeeded him. When Zhu Gui died, his son Tian Yi succeeded him; this was Cheng Tang.

3.  Cheng Tang: From Xie to Tang, there were eight relocations. Tang first resided in Bo, following the residence of the former kings, and composed the "Imperial Declarations."

4.  Tang campaigned against the feudal lords. The Earl of Ge did not perform sacrifices, so Tang first attacked him. Tang said: "I have a saying: people look at water to see their reflection; by observing the people, one knows if there is good governance or not." Yi Yin said: "How enlightened! If words can be heeded, the Way will advance. The ruler of a state cherishes his people like children; those who do good are all in the king's service. Strive on, strive on!" Tang said: "If you cannot respect the command, I will severely punish and execute you, with no pardon." He composed the "Tang's Expedition."

5.  Yi Yin's personal name was A Heng. A Heng wished to approach Tang but had no means, so he became a dowry servant of the You Xin clan, carrying cauldrons and sacrificial stands. He used [the art of] flavors to persuade Tang, leading him to the kingly Way. Some say Yi Yin was a scholar living in retirement. Tang sent envoys to invite him, and only after five attempts did he agree to go and serve Tang, speaking of the affairs of the Uncrowned King and the Nine Masters. Tang appointed him to manage the affairs of the state. Yi Yin left Tang and went to Xia. Disgusted with Xia, he returned to Bo. Entering through the north gate, he encountered Nü Jiu and Nü Fang, and composed "Nü Jiu and Nü Fang."

6.  Tang went out and saw a net set on all four sides in the wild, with an incantation: "May all from the four quarters of the world enter my net." Tang said: "Alas, this will take everything!" He then removed three sides of the net and made an incantation: "Those who wish to go left, go left. Those who wish to go right, go right. Those who do not obey my command, enter my net." The feudal lords heard of this and said: "Tang's virtue is supreme, extending even to birds and beasts."

7.  At that time, Jie of Xia was tyrannical and dissolute, and the feudal lord of Kunwu was causing trouble. Tang then raised an army and led the feudal lords. Yi Yin accompanied Tang. Tang personally wielded a battle-axe to attack Kunwu, and then attacked Jie. Tang said: "Come, all you people, come and listen carefully to my words. It is not I, this humble one, who dares to undertake rebellion. Xia has many crimes. I have heard all your words; the Xia clan is guilty. I fear Shangdi (God on High) and dare not fail to rectify [this]. Now Xia has many crimes, Heaven has decreed its extermination. Now, you multitudes say: 'Our lord does not care for us, abandoning our agricultural work to oppress us with his governance.' You also say: 'He is guilty, what can be done?' The King of Xia has exhausted the strength of the multitudes and plundered the state of Xia. The multitudes are all lazy and disharmonious, saying: 'When will this sun perish? We will perish together with you!' Xia's virtue is like this; now I must go. If you assist me, the one man, in carrying out Heaven's punishment, I will greatly reward you. Do not disbelieve me; I do not eat my words. If you do not follow the oath, I will enslave and execute you and your families, with no pardon." He announced this to the army, composing the "Oath of Tang." Thereupon Tang said: "I am greatly martial," and was called the Martial King.

8.  Jie was defeated in the plains of You Song. Jie fled to Mingtiao, and the Xia army was utterly routed. Tang then attacked Sancong, captured its precious jades. Yi Bo and Zhong Bo composed the "Canon of Treasures." Having defeated Xia, Tang wished to move its altars of soil and grain, but it was not possible, so he composed the "Xia She" (Altar of Xia). Yi Yin reported this. Thereupon, all the feudal lords submitted. Tang then ascended the Son of Heaven's throne and pacified the lands within the seas.

9.  Tang returned to Taijuan Tao, where Zhong Lei composed a declaration. Having abrogated the mandate of Xia, he returned to Bo and composed the "Declaration of Tang": "In the third month, the king personally went to the eastern suburbs. He announced to the feudal lords and princes: 'Do not fail to have merit for the people; diligently apply yourselves to your duties. I will severely punish and execute you; do not resent me.' He said: 'In ancient times, Yu and Gao Yao labored long abroad. They had merit for the people, and the people thus had peace. To the east is the Jiang (Yangtze), to the north is the Ji, to the west is the He (Yellow River), to the south is the Huai; the four rivers having been regulated, the myriad people then had dwellings. Hou Ji descended and sowed, cultivating the hundred grains. The three dukes all had merit for the people, so their descendants were established. In the past, Chi You and his ministers caused chaos among the people; the Emperor then did not favor him, and this is well-documented. The former kings said one must not fail to strive.' He said: 'Those who are unrighteous, do not let them be in the state; do not resent me.'" He issued this to the feudal lords. Yi Yin composed "All Have One Virtue," and Gao Dan composed "Illustrious Dwelling."

10. Tang then reformed the calendar, changed the color of ceremonial robes, favoring white, and held court audiences during the day.

11. Tang died. The crown prince Tai Ding died before he could ascend the throne. Thereupon, Tai Ding's younger brother Wai Bing was enthroned; this was Emperor Wai Bing. Emperor Wai Bing reigned for three years and died. Wai Bing's younger brother Zhong Ren was enthroned; this was Emperor Zhong Ren. Emperor Zhong Ren reigned for four years and died. Yi Yin then enthroned Tai Ding's son Tai Jia. Tai Jia was Cheng Tang's eldest legitimate grandson; this was Emperor Tai Jia. In the first year of Emperor Tai Jia, Yi Yin composed the "Instructions of Yi," "Various Orders," and "Going to the Former [Capital]."

12. After Emperor Tai Jia had been on the throne for three years, he was unenlightened, tyrannical, did not follow Tang's laws, and corrupted virtue. Thereupon, Yi Yin banished him to Tonggong. For three years, Yi Yin acted as regent, governing the state and holding audiences with the feudal lords.

13. Emperor Tai Jia resided in Tonggong for three years, repented his faults, reproached himself, and returned to goodness. Thereupon, Yi Yin welcomed Emperor Tai Jia back and returned the government to him. Emperor Tai Jia cultivated his virtue, and all the feudal lords returned their allegiance to Yin, and the people were thereby at peace. Yi Yin praised him, composed the "Instructions to Tai Jia" in three parts, lauded Emperor Tai Jia, and called him Tai Zong.

14. Tai Zong died, and his son Wo Ding succeeded him. During the time of Emperor Wo Ding, Yi Yin died. After Yi Yin was buried in Bo, Gao Dan instructed on Yi Yin's affairs and composed "Wo Ding."

15. Wo Ding died, and his younger brother Tai Geng succeeded him; this was Emperor Tai Geng. Emperor Tai Geng died, and his son Emperor Xiao Jia succeeded him. Emperor Xiao Jia died, and his younger brother Yong Ji succeeded him; this was Emperor Yong Ji. The Way of Yin declined, and some feudal lords did not come to court.

16. Emperor Yong Ji died, and his younger brother Tai Wu succeeded him; this was Emperor Tai Wu. Emperor Tai Wu appointed Yi Zhi as prime minister. In Bo, an auspicious mulberry and paper mulberry tree grew together in the court, and in one evening grew to an arm's span in girth. Emperor Tai Wu was frightened and asked Yi Zhi. Yi Zhi said: "I have heard that omens cannot overcome virtue. Is there perhaps a flaw in Your Majesty's governance? May Your Majesty cultivate virtue." Tai Wu followed his advice, and the auspicious mulberry tree withered and died. Yi Zhi recommended Wu Xian. Wu Xian successfully managed the royal household, composing "Xian Ai" and "Tai Wu." Emperor Tai Wu praised Yi Zhi in the ancestral temple, saying he would not treat him as a subject. Yi Zhi declined, composing "Original Mandate." Yin revived, and the feudal lords returned their allegiance. Therefore, he was called Zhong Zong.

17. Zhong Zong died, and his son Emperor Zhong Ding succeeded him. Emperor Zhong Ding moved the capital to Ao. He Dan Jia resided in Xiang. Zu Yi moved the capital to Xing. Emperor Zhong Ding died, and his younger brother Wai Ren succeeded him; this was Emperor Wai Ren. The records of Zhong Ding are incomplete. Emperor Wai Ren died, and his younger brother He Dan Jia succeeded him; this was Emperor He Dan Jia. During He Dan Jia's time, Yin declined again.

18. He Dan Jia died, and his son Emperor Zu Yi succeeded him. When Emperor Zu Yi ascended the throne, Yin revived again. Wu Xian was appointed to office.

19. Zu Yi died, and his son Emperor Zu Xin succeeded him. Emperor Zu Xin died, and his younger brother Wo Jia succeeded him; this was Emperor Wo Jia. Emperor Wo Jia died, and Wo Jia's elder brother Zu Xin's son Zu Ding was enthroned; this was Emperor Zu Ding. Emperor Zu Ding died, and his younger brother Wo Jia's son Nan Geng was enthroned; this was Emperor Nan Geng. Emperor Nan Geng died, and Emperor Zu Ding's son Yang Jia was enthroned; this was Emperor Yang Jia. During Emperor Yang Jia's time, Yin declined.

20. Since Zhong Ding, the legitimate succession was abandoned, and younger brothers or sons of brothers were enthroned instead. These brothers or sons of brothers sometimes fought for succession, leading to nine generations of disorder. Consequently, none of the feudal lords came to court.

21. Emperor Yang Jia died, and his younger brother Pan Geng succeeded him; this was Emperor Pan Geng. During Emperor Pan Geng's time, Yin had already established its capital north of the He (Yellow River). Pan Geng crossed south of the He and returned to reside in Cheng Tang's old capital. This was the fifth move, and there was no fixed abode. The people of Yin murmured and complained, not wishing to move. Pan Geng then addressed and admonished the feudal lords and high ministers, saying: "In the past, our high ancestor Cheng Tang, together with your ancestors, established the world; his laws can be cultivated. If we abandon them and do not strive, how can we achieve virtue!" He then crossed south of the He, established his capital at Bo, and implemented Tang's policies. Thereafter, the people were content, and the Way of Yin revived. The feudal lords came to court because he followed the virtue of Cheng Tang.

22. Emperor Pan Geng died, and his younger brother Xiao Xin succeeded him; this was Emperor Xiao Xin. When Emperor Xiao Xin ascended the throne, Yin declined again. The people longed for Pan Geng, and so the "Pan Geng" in three parts was composed. Emperor Xiao Xin died, and his younger brother Xiao Yi succeeded him; this was Emperor Xiao Yi.

23. Emperor Xiao Yi died, and his son Emperor Wu Ding succeeded him. When Emperor Wu Ding ascended the throne, he thought of reviving Yin but had not yet found an able assistant. For three years, he did not speak, and affairs of state were decided by the chief minister, so he could observe the customs of the state. Wu Ding dreamt at night that he found a sage named Yue. He compared the man seen in the dream with his ministers and officials, but none matched. He then sent artisans to search for him in the wilds and found Yue in Fu Xian. At that time, Yue was a convict laborer, building at Fu Xian. When brought before Wu Ding, Wu Ding said, "This is he." He conversed with him and found him to be a true sage. He appointed him prime minister, and the state of Yin became greatly ordered. Therefore, he was given the surname Fu from Fu Xian, and was called Fu Yue.

24. Emperor Wu Ding was sacrificing to Cheng Tang. The next day, a pheasant flew up, landed on the ear of a ding (cauldron), and crowed. Wu Ding was alarmed. Zu Ji said: "Your Majesty, do not worry; first cultivate your administration." Zu Ji then instructed the king, saying: "It is Heaven that supervises the people below and upholds their righteousness. It bestows long years or short years; it is not Heaven that prematurely ends people's lives, but they themselves who cut short their mandate. If people do not follow virtue and do not heed warnings of their faults, even if Heaven has already confirmed its mandate and rectified their virtue, they will still say, 'What can be done?' Alas! If the king respectfully cares for the people, it is nothing other than Heaven's continuation. In regular sacrifices, do not perform rites for an abandoned way." Wu Ding cultivated his administration and practiced virtue; the whole world rejoiced, and the Way of Yin revived.

25. Emperor Wu Ding died, and his son Emperor Zu Geng succeeded him. Zu Ji, commending Wu Ding for turning the omen of the pheasant into a display of virtue, established his temple name as Gao Zong, and subsequently composed "Gao Zong's Day of the Rong Sacrifice" and "Instructions."

26. Emperor Zu Geng died, and his younger brother Zu Jia succeeded him; this was Emperor Jia. Emperor Jia was licentious and disorderly, and Yin declined again.

27. Emperor Jia died, and his son Emperor Lin Xin succeeded him. Emperor Lin Xin died, and his younger brother Geng Ding succeeded him; this was Emperor Geng Ding. Emperor Geng Ding died, and his son Emperor Wu Yi succeeded him. Yin again moved from Bo, relocating north of the He.

28. Emperor Wu Yi was without principle. He made a wooden idol and called it a celestial god. He gambled with it, having someone act for the idol. When the celestial god did not win, he insulted it. He made a leather bag, filled it with blood, hung it up and shot at it, calling this "shooting Heaven." Wu Yi was hunting between the He and Wei rivers when a violent thunderstorm occurred, and Wu Yi was struck by lightning and died. His son Emperor Tai Ding succeeded him. Emperor Tai Ding died, and his son Emperor Yi succeeded him. When Emperor Yi ascended the throne, Yin further declined.

29. Emperor Yi's eldest son was named Weizi Qi. Qi's mother was of low status, so he could not be the heir. His younger son was Xin. Xin's mother was the principal queen, so Xin became the heir. Emperor Yi died, and his son Xin succeeded him; this was Emperor Xin, whom the world called Zhou.

30. Emperor Zhou was naturally eloquent and quick-witted, his hearing and sight exceptionally keen. His physical strength surpassed others; he could fight fierce beasts with his bare hands. His knowledge was sufficient to reject remonstrance, his words sufficient to gloss over his faults. He boasted to his ministers of his abilities, vaunted his reputation to the world, believing everyone to be beneath him. He loved wine and debauchery, and doted on women. He loved Da Ji, and followed Da Ji's words. He then ordered Master Juan to compose new licentious music, the dances of Beili, and decadent melodies. He levied heavy taxes to fill the coffers of the Deer Terrace and to overflow the granaries of Juqiao. He increasingly collected dogs, horses, and strange objects, filling the palace chambers. He further expanded the Sand Hill gardens and terraces, capturing many wild beasts and birds to place within them. He was disrespectful to ghosts and spirits. He held great gatherings for music and games at Sand Hill, using wine for pools and hanging meat for forests, making men and women chase each other naked therein, engaging in all-night revelries.

31. The people怨望 (resented and hoped for change) and some feudal lords rebelled. Thereupon, Zhou implemented severe punishments, including the method of the "burning pillar" (pao ge). He appointed Xibo Chang (Lord of the West Chang), Jiuhou (Marquis of Jiu), and Ehou (Marquis of E) as the three dukes. Jiuhou had a beautiful daughter whom he sent to Zhou. Jiuhou's daughter did not delight in debauchery. Zhou became enraged, killed her, and minced Jiuhou. Ehou remonstrated strongly and argued vehemently, so Zhou also had Ehou made into dried meat. Xibo Chang heard of this and sighed secretly. Chonghou Hu (Marquis of Chong Hu) learned of it and reported it to Zhou, who then imprisoned Xibo in Youli. Xibo's retainers, Hong Yao and others, sought beautiful women, rare objects, and fine horses to present to Zhou, who then pardoned Xibo. Xibo went out and offered the land west of the Luo River to request the abolition of the burning pillar punishment. Zhou agreed to this, granted him bows, arrows, axes, and battle-axes, allowing him to conduct punitive expeditions, and made him Lord of the West. He then employed Fei Zhong in government. Fei Zhong was skilled in flattery and fond of profit; the people of Yin did not feel close to him. Zhou also employed E Lai. E Lai was skilled in slander and calumny; the feudal lords thereby became more estranged.

32. Xibo returned and secretly cultivated virtue and performed good deeds. Many feudal lords rebelled against Zhou and went to submit to Xibo. Xibo grew increasingly powerful, and Zhou thereby gradually lost power and influence. Prince Bi Gan remonstrated, but was not heeded. Shang Rong was a worthy man, loved by the people, but Zhou dismissed him. When Xibo attacked and conquered the state of Ji, Zhou's minister Zu Yi heard of it and blamed Zhou. Frightened, he ran to report to Zhou, saying: "Heaven has already ended our Yin's mandate. Consulting the great tortoise, none dare to know good fortune. It is not that the former kings do not assist us, their descendants, but that Your Majesty's debauchery and cruelty have led to self-destruction. Therefore, Heaven has abandoned us. We do not have peaceful sustenance, nor do we understand or follow Heaven's nature or the established laws. Now, none of our people do not wish for our ruin, saying, 'Why does Heaven not send down its awe-inspiring power? Why does the great mandate not arrive?' Now, Your Majesty, what will you do?" Zhou said: "Is not my life ordained by Heaven?" Zu Yi returned and said: "Zhou cannot be remonstrated with." After Xibo died, King Wu of Zhou marched east to Mengjin. Eight hundred feudal lords who had rebelled against Yin assembled with Zhou. All the feudal lords said: "Zhou can be attacked." King Wu said: "You do not yet know the Mandate of Heaven." He then returned.

33. Zhou became ever more licentious and unrestrained. Weizi (Viscount of Wei) repeatedly remonstrated but was not heeded, so he conferred with the Grand Master and Junior Master, and then departed. Bi Gan said: "As a minister, one cannot but risk death to remonstrate." He then strongly remonstrated with Zhou. Zhou was enraged and said: "I have heard that a sage's heart has seven apertures." He剖 (dissected) Bi Gan to examine his heart. Jizi (Viscount of Ji) was frightened and feigned madness, becoming a slave. Zhou also imprisoned him. The Grand Master and Junior Master of Yin then took their sacrificial and musical instruments and fled to Zhou. King Wu of Zhou thereupon led the feudal lords to attack Zhou. Zhou also dispatched troops to resist them at Muye. On the day Jiazi, Zhou's army was defeated. Zhou fled, entered [his palace], ascended the Deer Terrace, dressed in his treasure-laden robes, and threw himself into the fire, dying. King Wu of Zhou then cut off Zhou's head and hung it on the [Great] White Banner. He killed Da Ji. He released Jizi from prison, enfeoffed Bi Gan's tomb, and honored Shang Rong's village gate. He enfeoffed Zhou's son Wu Geng, Lu Fu, to continue the Yin sacrifices, ordering him to practice the governance of Pan Geng. The people of Yin were greatly pleased. Thereupon, King Wu of Zhou became the Son of Heaven. Later generations demoted the title of Di (Emperor) and were called Wang (King). He enfeoffed the descendants of Yin as feudal lords, subordinate to Zhou.

34. King Wu of Zhou died. Wu Geng, along with Guan Shu and Cai Shu, rebelled. King Cheng ordered the Duke of Zhou to execute them, and established Weizi in Song to continue the line of Yin.

35. The Grand Historian says: I have arranged the affairs of Xie according to the "Odes." Since Cheng Tang, I have drawn from the "Book of Documents" and "Book of Songs." Xie's surname was Zi. His descendants were enfeoffed, taking their states as surnames, including the Yin clan, Lai clan, Song clan, Kongtong clan, Zhi clan, Bei Yin clan, and Muyi clan. Confucius said that the Yin road chariot was well-made, and their favored color was white.
